### Chapter 1
Provides setting. The story is based on the dystopian depiction of London in war, where it is now part of a continent called "Oceania".

Opens diary: This was pretty significant, and in it, he alludes the how no one cares what the proles do. I also get a sense of distaste towards the society from Winston's words.

Two minutes hate: Even Winston, against the ideologies of such society, involuntarily felt obligated to do it, since everyone else is doing it. This makes me wonder, what if there are many others who think like him, but are also just hiding it?

**Themes**:
- Introduction of Newspeak: Minitrue, minipax, these abbreviations reveal the ideologies and thoughts of the ruler of London. Strives for the reduction of identity, the homogenization of society, to reduce individuality.
- Propaganda. The two minutes hate really reflective of it.
- A little bit on Lust and love. And how it is core to human desires. We see it in the description of the Scarlet sash of the sexy dark hair girl.
- Rebellion, carelessness of self in the greater good of people, the sacrifice of own tangilbles for greater societal good. "I dont care down with big brother."

### Chapter 2
Summary: Mrs Parsons, neighbour, needed help with the sink. Situational irony with the children posing as thought police. 

**Themes**:
- Assimilation, brainwashing of children.
- Chocolate ration decreases despite war win.
- "Nothing was your own except the few cubic centimetres inside your skull" -- The power of the mind